>> I'M GOING TO SHOW YOU A
PICTURE OF A 23-YEAR-OLD
AMERICAN ISRAELI.
HE'S BELIEVED TO BE A HOSTAGE
IN GAZA.
LAST MONDAY, I DID A LIVE
INTERVIEW WITH HIS MOM RACHEL
AND HIS DAUGHTER JOHN.
THEY TOLD ME HIS ARM HAD BEEN
BLOWN OFF BY HAMAS GUNMAN WHO
TOSSED GRENADES --
AFTER HE ESCAPED FROM THE MUSIC
FESTIVAL.
WITNESSES HAD TOLD THEM HER SON
WAS PUT INTO A TRUCK FROM
GUNMAN AND TAKEN OFF.
THEY HAD NO VIDEO OF THEIR SON.
SO, DURING THE LIVE INTERVIEW A
WEEK AGO, WE SHOWED A PICTURE
OF HERSH GOLDBERG-POLIN'I
REALIZE I ACTUALLY SAW THEIR
SON AND HAD A VIDEO OF THEIR
SON ON MY PHONE.
IT HAD BEEN SHOWN TO ME BY A
SOLDIER AT THE MUSIC FESTIVAL.
WE RECORDED OF HIS PHONE, WE
HAVE PERMISSION FROM HIM TO DO.
SO IT HAD NEVER BEEN RELEASED
PUBLICLY.
I DID NOT WANT THE SHOT OF
DURING THE INTERVIEW SO, I WAIT
FOR IT TO BE DONE.
THEN I CALLED RACHEL AND JOHN
IMMEDIATELY, AND I SENT THEM
THE VIDEO.
IT WAS THEIR SON, HERSH
GOLDBERG-POLIN.
I'VE BEEN TOUCH THE FAMILY A
LOT THIS LAST WEEK, AND THEY
WOULD LIKE EVERYONE TO SEE THIS
VIDEO, THEY WANT TO KNOW WHAT
HAS HAPPENED TO THEIR CHILD,
AND THEY WANT THE WORLD TO KNOW
THAT THERE ARE SERIOUSLY
WOUNDED PEOPLE WHO WERE TAKEN
BY HAMAS.
THIS VIDEO WAS PROOF OF THAT.
WE WERE NOT SOME PARTS OF, IT
WE WANT TO WARN YOU THAT IT IS
DISTURBING.
>> [SPEAKING IN A NON-ENGLISH
LANGUAGE]
WHAT GOD IS GREAT, THE
GOVERNMENT, SHOUTS RECORDING ON
HIS PHONE.
[SPEAKING IN A NON-ENGLISH
LANGUAGE]
HE CHECKS A CAR, LOOKING FOR
ANYONE ELSE HIDING.
OTHER GUNMAN SHOT AS THEY BRING
SURVIVORS FROM THE SHELTER.
CALM, CALM, THEY.
YELLOW THEM.
THAT IS HURT ON THE RIGHT WITH
ANOTHER HOSTAGE.
HIS LEFT HAND AND PART OF HIS
ARM IS BLOWN.
OF THE BONE STICKS OUT.
[SPEAKING IN A NON-ENGLISH
LANGUAGE]
THE OTHER HOSTAGE APPEARS
WOUNDED AS WELL.
>> ANOTHER WOUNDED HOSTAGES
DRAGGED BY HIS HAIR AND TOSSED
INTO THE TRUCK.
A FOURTH MAN IS THROWN ON TOP
OF THEM.
>> WHEN I SENT THE VIDEO TO YOU,
WHAT WAS YOUR INITIAL?
>> IT'S A CRAZY SEQUENCE OF
EVENTS THAT WE TALK TO YOU
THROUGH A COMPUTER SCREEN AND
THEN GET A PHONE CALL FROM YOU
SAYING, I HAVE A VIDEO OF YOUR
SON.
>> I DID NOT WANT TO SAY ON
LIVE TELEVISION.
>> WE HAVE COURSE APPRECIATED.
THE WAY EVERYTHING HAS UNFOLDED,
THE GENTLENESS THAT YOU USE,
BECAUSE AT THE END OF THE DAY
YOU ARE A JOURNALIST, AND
JOURNALIST WON A STORY.
THAT COU HAVE BEEN DEALT WITH
IN MANY OTHER WAYS THAT WERE
NOT KIND AND GENTLE.
>> SO, FIRST SEEING THAT VIDEO
IN GENERAL GAVE US A DOSE OF
OPTIMISM.
AS HORRIBLE AS IT IS AS A
PARENT TO SEE YOUR KID UNDER
GUNPOINT BEING PUSHED WITH ONE
ARM, THE COMPOSURE FROM WHICH
HE'S WALKING ON HIS OWN LEGS,
PULLING HIMSELF WITH HIS ONE
WEEK HAN, HE'S A LEFTY, AND HIS
LEFT ARM WAS BLOWN, OF PULLING
HIMSELF IT IS ONE-WEEK HAND
ONTO THE TRUCK, GAVE ME A REAL
GHOST OF HIS STRENGTHS THAT HE
IS HANDLING A HORRIBLE
SITUATION, AND HE IS DOING IT
WOULD COMPOSURE.
>> WE'RE SAYING HE WALKED OUT
CALMLY, WHICH HE DID, BUT I
THINK IT WAS FROM SHOCK.
>> THEY HAVE THIS PHOTO TAKEN
INSIDE THE SHELTER BEFORE HAMAS
GUNMAN BEGAN THROWING GRENADES
INSIDE.
RACHEL SAYS, AS MANY AS 29
PEOPLE WERE CRAMMED TOGETHER.
THAT IS HERSH, AND THIS IS HIS
FRIEND.
>> HURST AND HIS FRIEND WENT TO
THE FESTIVAL TOGETHER.
THEY'VE KNOWN TO THE SINCE THEY
WERE KIDS.
HONOR WAS BEHIND THE DOOR, AND
BY ANYONE'S ACCOUNT WHICH WE
SPOKE TO, AS THEY WERE THROWING
GRENADES, HE WOULD KEEP PICKING
THEM UP AND THROWING THEM OUT,
PICKING THEM UP THROWING THEM
OUT.
ALL THESE WITNESSES SAID THERE
WERE 11 GRENADES THROWN IN.
HE THREW OUT EIGHT.
>> RACHEL SAYS EIGHT PEOPLE
SURVIVED AND DEVOTED CAPTURED
BY HIDING BENEATH THE BODIES OF
THE DEAD.
HIS FRIENDS ARE TO MAKE IT OUT
ALIVE.
>> HIS PARENTS CAME TO HER
HOUSE ON FRIDAY, AND THE PEOPLE
WHO ARE IDENTIFYING BODIES
ACTUALLY LET THEM KNOW THAT THE
IDENTIFIED HIM WITH DNA, BUT IN
HIS HAND HE WAS HOLDING A
GRENADE.
HIS DEAD BODY HAD A GRENADE IN
IT IN HIS HAND.
THIS MEANS HE IS THE REAL
HEROES.
THOSE EIGHT PEOPLE, AND EVEN
THE PEOPLE WHO WALKED OUT AND
ARE NOW IN GAZA, IT IS BECAUSE
OF HONOR.
>> HOW WERE YOU ABLE TO GET
THROUGH EACH DAY?
>> I PERSONALLY FEEL LIKE WE
HAVE TO KEEP RUNNING TO THE END
OF THE EARTH TO SAVE HIM.
WE HAVE TO KEEP GOING AND
BELIEVING THAT SOMEHOW HE GOT
TREATMENT, AND HE IS THERE, AND
HE IS IN PAIN, AND SUFFERING,
BUT HE'S ALIVE AND THERE.
THERE ARE ALSO THE MOMENTS IN
THIS UNIVERSE THAT WE NOW LIVE,
WHERE YOU SAY, MAYBE HE DIED ON
THE TRUCK.
MAYBE HE BLOOD OUT IN THE
TRUCK.
MAYBE HE DIED YESTERDAY.
MAYBE HE DIED FIVE MINUTES AGO.
THERE ARE THOSE MOMENTS WHERE
YOU THINK, HOW ARE THESE
THOUGHTS EVEN, I DON'T
UNDERSTAND THESE THOUGHTS.
THEY ARE REAL THOUGHTS.
>> THEY OFTEN GO DOWN TO SEE
THEIR SONS ROOM.
>> THIS IS HERSH
GOLDBERG-POLIN'S ROOM?
>> IT'S A STEEL DOOR BECAUSE
IT'S OUR BOMB SHELTER AS WELL.
>> YOU CAN FEEL HIM HERE CLOSE,
HIS GLOBE, HIS BOOKS, AND
MOMENTOUS, IT'S ALL JUST AS HE
LEFT THEM.
RACHEL DID MAKE HIS BED HOWEVER,
SHE WANTS IT READY FOR WHEN HE
RETURNS.
>> WE HAVE A PORCH THAT'S
FACING SOUTH, AND THEY WENT OUT
FRIDAY NIGHT.
I WAS SCREAMING TO HIM.
HOPING.
FRIDAY NIGHT WE BLESS OUR
CHILDREN TRADITIONALLY, AND
JEWISH HOMES YOU BLESS YOUR
CHILDREN ON FRIDAY NIGHT.
SO, I WAS SCREAMING.
IT'S A TRADITIONAL BLESSING
FROM THE BIBLE.
I WAS SCREAMING THE BLESSING TO
HIM.
MY HANDS OUT.
I USUALLY PUT MY HANDS ON HIS
HEAD WHEN HE'S HOME.
>> WHAT DOES THE BLESSING SAY?
>> IT SAYS, MAY GOD BLESS YOU
AND MAY HIS FACE SHINE UPON YOU
AND BE GRACIOUS TO YOU.
MAY GOD'S COUNTENANCE BE LIFTED
UP TOWARDS YOU AND GIVE YOU
PEACE.
>> WOULD YOU WANT PEOPLE TO
KNOW ABOUT HERSH?
>> HE'S A SUPER CURIOUS KID,
AND THIS WANDERLUST HE
DEVELOPED WHEN HE WAS SIX OR
SEVEN YEARS OLD HAS BEEN HIS
LIFE, OBSESSION ALWAYS ASKING
FOR MAPS AND GLOBES AND ATLAS
IS FOR HIS BAR MITZVAH.
THESE LAST FEW YEARS HE'S
REALLY SAVED EVERY PENNY TO GO
ON THIS TRIP THAT HE HAS A
TICKET FOR ON DECEMBER 27TH.
HE WAS GOING TO GO TO INDIA,
AND THEY'LL ALL POINTS.
EAST >> RACHEL AND JOHN WERE ON
THE COVER OF TIME MAGAZINE.
THEY'RE TRYING TO GET THE WORLD
TO PAY ATTENTION TO THE PLAY OF
THE HOSTAGES, PARTICULARLY
THOSE LIKE HER TO HAVE SERIOUS
WOUNDS OR MEDICAL ISSUES.
>> AS AMERICANS ISRAELIS, WE
HAVE BEEN EMBRACED BY THE U.S.
GOVERNMENT.
THE SUPPORT IS THERE.
THE EMPATHY IS THERE FROM THE
U.S..
WE ARE OBVIOUSLY HUNGRY FOR
MORE THAN THAT.
WE WANT ACTION.
WE WANT RESULTS.
THERE ARE HOSTAGES FROM
SOMEWHERE AROUND 30 COUNTRIES,
WHY HAVE WE NOT YET SEEN PRIME
MINISTERS, FOREIGN MINISTERS,
GLOBAL LEADERS SCREAMING TO GET
THE WOUNDED HELP?
>> RACHEL ALSO GOT TO BE IN A
POOL WITH OTHER AMERICAN
FAMILIES AND PRESIDENT BIDEN.
>> HE STAYED FOR 90 MINUTES AND
LISTEN TO US, AND CRIED WITH
US.
>> I KNOW LOSS, I HAVE LOST TWO
CHILDREN, I LOST MY WIFE, AND
I'M TELLING YOU THAT YOU NEED
TO GO THROUGH THIS, BUT YOU
ALSO NEED TO REMEMBER THAT YOU
WILL BE STRONG AGAIN FOR YOUR
FAMILY.
HE SAID THINGS THAT BECAUSE HE
KNOWS LAWS, SO IT WASN'T
PLATITUDES, IT WAS SOMEONE
SPEAKING WHO HAS LOST CHILDREN,
SPEAKING TO A MOTHER WHO LOST
HER TWO CHILDREN.
IT'S WAS REAL MOMENT OF COMING
TOGETHER JUST AS PEOPLE WHO
KNOW WHAT'S PAIN IS.
THIS VERY EXCRUCIATING PARTS OF
PAIN.
>> THIS IS A PARTICULAR KIND OF
>> CORRECT.
THERE IS NO PLAYBOOK FOR THIS
THAT WE KNOW OF.
THE GAME DAILY IS HE ALIVE?
IS HE GETTING TREATMENT?
DID HE DIE 15 DAYS AGO?
WE ARE ON THE HEAD OF A PEN,
AND EVERY DIRECTION YOU FALL IS
A BAD DIRECTION.
SO, A LOT OF HOW WE GET THROUGH
THE DAY WHEN YOU ASKED THAT
REPORT IS WE'RE TRYING TO
BALANCE ON THE HEAD OF THE PIN
AND JUST GET EVERYTHING DONE
WITH THE HOPE THAT HE WILL COME
HOME TO US ALIVE, AND HE'LL GO
ON THAT TRIP WITH ONE HAND.
>> JOHN AND RACHEL.
WITH ME NOW IS VETERAN CHIEF OF
JERUSALEM POST.
THE SITUATION WITH THE HOSTAGES
IS SO HORRIFIC AND SICKENING.
DO YOU HEAR, WHEN YOU TALK TO
PEOPLE DO WHAT DO THEY TALK
ABOUT FIRST, WHAT DO YOU HEAR
FROM PEOPLE?
I THINK THE RALLIES ARE IN A
STATE OF SHOCK AND TRAUMA.
THEY'RE ALSO IN THIS WAITING
GAME, NOT KNOWING WHETHER THIS
GROUND OFFENSIVE IS GOING TO
HAPPEN OR NOT.
THERE ARE 360,000 PEOPLE WHO
ARE MASKED ON THE BORDER, AND
THAT AFFECTS FAMILIES ACROSS
THE COUNTRY.
PEOPLE, SIBLING, SPOUSES,
PARENTS IN SOME CASES.
SO, I THINK THAT PEOPLE ARE
MOST OF.
THE HOSPITALITY WAGING IS VERY
MUCH ON PEOPLES MINDS.
THAT HAS BEEN VERY MUCH THE
CONVERSATION THIS TIME.
>> HAMAS COULD RELEASE ALL
THEIR HOSTAGES RIGHT AWAY.
THE GAME THEY ARE PLAYING OF
RELEASING TWO BY TWO IS VERY
CLEAR THAT THERE IS A TACTIC
THERE AND THE STRATEGY THERE,
THE MANIPULATION OF IT.
IT IS INCREDIBLE TO ME THAT
WOUNDED HOSTAGES, AND FANS,
TODDLERS, PEOPLE WITH SEVERE
MEDICAL CONDITIONS ARE STILL
BEING HELD.
>> IT'S SHOCKING.
THERE ARE NO WORDS TO DESCRIBE
ANYTHING WE'VE ENCOUNTERED OVER
THE PAST TWO WEEKS.
I DON'T KNOW THE ENGLISH
LANGUAGE HAS THE VOCABULARY TO
ENABLE US TO DESCRIBE WHAT
WE'RE GOING THROUGH.
BUT, THE HORROR OF HAVING SMALL
INFANTS, ELDERLY PEOPLE, PEOPLE
WITH DISABILITIES OR